
“We need to respect the fact that it is possible to know without knowing why we know and accept that-sometimes-we’re better off that way.” ― Malcolm Gladwell, Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking

“When making a decision of minor importance, I have always found it advantageous to consider all the pros and cons. In vital matters, however, such as the choice of a mate or a profession, the decision should come from the unconscious, from somewhere within ourselves. In the important decisions of personal life, we should be governed, I think, by the deep inner needs of our nature.”
― Malcolm Gladwell, Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking

“Our world requires that decisions be sourced and footnoted, and if we say how we feel, we must also be prepared to elaborate on why we feel that way.” 
― Malcolm Gladwell, Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking


What this document doesn’t address is encouragement—commandment, even—from Church leaders to use another way of knowing to gain testimony: education. We are commanded not only to use the pray-feel method for determining truth, but to learn as much as we can about everything, including "secular" things. I get that you're addressing the pray-feel method in this document, but it does feel a bit one-sided. More specifically, it seems like you mean that the pray-feel way of knowing is the main one, or the one that Church leaders support over say, education. If you talk about one way of knowing, I think you should at least mention other ways of knowing.

Education is knowing “facts,” but also knowing oneself. In your example of the man with intrusive thoughts, he didn’t seem to be educated about OCD, nor did he seem to be self-aware enough to know that perhaps his thoughts were manifestations of such a mental disorder. I realize that in saying that, I am justifying my own beliefs, but even if I am, it's entirely possible that I’m also making a good point. :)

I think revelation of truth falls short with any method. How do we know, for example, that something from “science” is true? In particular, how do we know a scientific paper is accurate if it deals with a subject with which we are unfamiliar, such as chemistry, for example? On some level, all “knowing” is based on some form of trust—trust that what someone in a higher position of authority or education is saying is true. Maybe truth=trust? In that case, the best way to gain a testimony of something is through a feeling. (Sidenote: Malcolm Gladwell said that for small, insignificant decisions, we should do thorough research, but for big, life-changing decisions, we should go with our gut.) But then, that's problematic, so . . .

Look at ways of knowing? Or epistemology in general? The Wikipedia article is always a good start. Virtue epistemology is an interesting concept, and again, I think relates to the idea that people ultimately place trust in others on topics they don't understand.

Which makes me think of cognitive load and all that jazz. I think some people are more comfortable with greater cognitive load than others, and I think methodological doubt uses up a huge amount of cognition.

---

Wow, that was a very thoughtful and detailed reply.  I really appreciate you reading that paper and thinking it over.

These are all really good points.  Some things were new to me and some I hadn't considered for this paper but probably should have.

> ...education...

Yeah, that's a fantastic point.  That should at least be acknowledged (I'll add that in).  I didn't deliberately leave it out, but I was just so focused on this one way of thinking and its potential deficiencies.

> ... knowing oneself

Great point.  maybe I can work this into the conclusion...

> ... all “knowing” is based on some form of trust—trust that what someone in a higher position of authority or education is saying is true...
"...revelation of truth falls short with any method..."

These are good points.  I am skeptical of much of science for this reason (scientists are frequently wrong and have biases (paid for certain research, etc).  However, science generally invites criticism and for things to be reproduced and checked from different angles.  If the original work doesn't check out or was shown to be fabricated, then those scientists lose respect (i.e., we stop trusting them) but the process is fairly sound.

On the other hand, whenever our church leaders put forth something that is verifiable, it is often shown to be wrong (e.g. global flood); or it is contradicted by later leaders.  We have various coping mechanisms in place to deal with this (e.g., "they were speaking as a man"), but the end result is that many folks who scrutinize the verifiable claims end up losing trust in the leaders as a source for truth (many maintain the "goodness", some don't).  OTOH, those who scrutinize science and its history rarely lose trust in the scientific process (even if they are aware of its flaws in practice).

> (Sidenote: Malcolm Gladwell said that for small, insignificant decisions, we should do thorough research, but for big, life-changing decisions, we should go with our gut.)

That looks interesting.  In the reconciliation section I tried to emphasize that feelings are still important, but I could probably have done a better job (this would be a good example to throw in).

> ...epistemology...

Great suggestion.  Virtue epistemology does look interesting.

I like philosophy, but I've always been skeptical as to how useful the major theories can be, mainly because it seems like the philosophers are so good at punching holes in one another's philosophies.  I skimmed the epistemology page and virtue ethics, but I'm not sure how to work those ideas in.  Maybe deeper than I'm trying to go on this?  Hard for me to say since I don't spend much time in this area.

> ...and I think methodological doubt uses up a huge amount of cognition...

[I haven't thought much about cognitive load.]

yeah, it's a good point.  It's a tough problem to begin with, so we end up using shortcuts.  It's tough to decipher when a prophet is "speaking as a man" or not, so we have shortcuts (is it from General Conference, or was it a 1st Pres statement).  Morality is the same way... we don't want to have to deal with nuance, so we just say "don't drink" or "don't watch rated R movies" (both things I basically agree with, but you get my point).

Again, thanks for those thoughts.  Very insightful.
