http://askreality.com/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ycUvC9s4VYA

Conversation with [A CLOSE FRIEND] about this video.  The identity of the messenger comes after the message.

goodness I just had my mind blown
http://askreality.com/
[A CLOSE FRIEND] • Aug 15, 1:09 PM
looks interesting.  I'll take a look.
Aug 15, 1:14 PM
￼
￼
The video (I think it is 8) that shows other religions having what you would see in a testimony meeting (same phrases, same tears, same surety) is really powerful
So either Moroni 10:5 is wrong, or there are a LOT of deceiving spirits out there, and it is very very difficult to determine what message comes from God and what does not
actually, to me all this strengthens the Joseph Smith movement
because it means that anyone who doesn't have firsthand interaction with God should not be seen as an example to follow
and also if you do what they are teaching and don't obtain the same, you ought to abandon ship
still, disconcerting. If this were shown to active members, I bet 50% or more would leave the church.
and become athiests
[A CLOSE FRIEND] • Aug 15, 1:19 PM
Yeah, it's a very interesting video.  I've seen a lot of similar things (like check out Chris Nemelka and followers).  Also, I've read into all the different psych-pysiological responses (well documented) that folks interpret as the spirit.
Aug 15, 1:39 PM
￼
￼
disturbing
[A CLOSE FRIEND] • Aug 15, 1:40 PM
I believe in spiritual communication, but I'm also fully cognizant that it is very imprecise.
Yeah, those testimonies are straight out of an LDS mtg...
It's this kind of ambiguity with spiritual things that has forced me to fully rationalize my personal ethics.  The spirit says, "this is good", my brain articulates exactly why and how...
(and I'm aware that "good" may only refer to parts and pieces...)
say, of the LDS faith.
The presentation is very convincing, but it does have a couple holes/issues.
Aug 15, 1:44 PM
￼
1) He presents an artificial brain/God dichotomy.  As a biochemist, I think that spiritual experiences *are* from the brain, but that is part of our soul.  Why wouldn't God communicate via our soul (i.e., via our brain)?  I realize this doesn't destroy the notion that spiritual experiences are just brain reflections, but neither does the idea that spiritual experiences are brain reflections destroy the possibility that they are from God.
Aug 15, 1:48 PM
￼
￼
right
agreed
[A CLOSE FRIEND] • Aug 15, 1:50 PM
2) The spiritual experiences that all these folks are having may indeed be from God (or as you say, from false spirits), but they are misinterpreting the implications of what that feeling means.  How does God answer a very nebulous questions like, "Is Islam true?"  He can say yeah, lots of good stuff in there, but lot's of garbage, too.  Then, the recipient layers in extra meaning: this is the *only* true faith, etc.
The take home really is: spiritual feelings only get you so far.  Got to question and sift through...
Aug 15, 1:53 PM
￼
￼
YES. Exactly on #2
God rounds to the next-nearest truth
then he will put stuff in your life to refine the answer
I agree with your assessment completely
[A CLOSE FRIEND] • Aug 15, 2:02 PM
still disturbing, though 😃
Aug 15, 2:11 PM
￼

