
-- doubts vs. questions
Does this line of reasoning cause you to lose faith in the Church?
[Yes] - that was a doubt.  You should not doubt (doubt not fear not).
[No] - that's a good question.

> I have sympathy for young men and young women when honest doubts enter their minds and they engage in the great conflict of resolving doubts. These doubts can be resolved, if they have an honest desire to know the truth, by exercising moral, spiritual, and mental effort. They will emerge from the conflict into a firmer, stronger, larger faith because of the struggle. They have gone from a simple, trusting faith, through doubt and conflict, into a solid substantial faith which ripens into testimony. Any Questions? Ensign, May 2012, quoting Howard W. Hunter Oct 1960 General Conference.


Questions, when asked with a sincere desire to increase one’s understanding and faith, are to be encouraged...
Sincere questions are those asked with the “real intent” (Moroni 10:4) to better understand and more fully obey the will of the Lord...  There is no suggestion in the scriptures or the teachings of the prophets that encourages doubt.


As doubts arise, it may be useful to honestly ask yourself, Is there something I am doing or desiring that is contrary to the gospel? If you answer yes, seek help from your bishop.
Letting your doubts justify your sins is never a successful substitute for repenting.


Does this question cause you to doubt the truthfulness of the Church?

[YES] - that's a doubt, and we are no where taught by leaders or in scripture to doubt

[NO] - that is

Answers to spiritual questions are given to individuals who don’t harden their hearts; who ask in faith, believing they will receive; and who diligently keep the commandments


did the doubt resolve into a firmer, stronger, larger faith?

[YES] - it was an honest doubt
[NO] - ...

“Answers to spiritual questions are given to individuals who don’t harden their hearts; who ask in faith, believing they will receive; and who diligently keep the commandments” (Paul V. Johnson, “A Pattern for Learning Spiritual Things” [Church Educational System address to religious educators, Aug. 7, 2012]; si.lds.org).

But I think the Church might not be true...

Doubt your doubts before you doubt your faith"

Do these questions cause you to lose faith in the truthfulness of the Church? -> [YES] those are doubts [NO] Keeping asking questions that lead to increased faith!

Have you received an answer to your questions? [YES] - Good! Problem solved!
                                                [NO] - Answers are give to those who don't harden their hearts. Doubt your doubts.  hold the ground you have already won.  A mature testimony lasts.
